feat: Audiences Docs (#628)
knocklabs/docs: content/concepts/audiences.mdx

---
title: Audiences
description: Learn how to use Audiences to power your lifecycle marketing use cases.
tags: []
section: Concepts
---

An Audience is a user segment that you can notify. You can bring audiences into Knock programmatically with our API or a supported reverse-ETL source.

Once you start creating audiences in Knock, you can use them to:

- trigger workflows for lifecycle messaging (such as new user signups) and transactional messaging (such as payment method updates)
- orchestrate branch and conditional logic within your workflows using audience membership (e.g. if a user is in a `paid users` audience, opt them out of the workflow)

## Creating an audience

Navigate to the **Audiences** section on the Knock dashboard’s sidebar, then click “Create Audience” in the top right corner.

> ### Using audiences across environments

Reviewer: Should we link to environment docs here? If I was a marketer who got sent this doc from engineering—I'd want to try and understand that concept.

<Callout
  emoji="💡"
  text={
    <>
      <b>Remember: audiences are environment scoped.</b> This means the workflow will run in the environment where the user was added to the audience. If you use a production API key to add users to an audience in production, your workflow will trigger in the production environment.{" "}

      <a href="/concepts/environments">Learn more about environments.</a>
    </>}

/>

### Audience conditions

Audience membership can be checked in [branch](designing-workflows/branch-function#adding-conditions-to-branches) and [step conditions](/designing-workflows/step-conditions). Create a condition, then select “Audience membership” as the type. When the condition is evaluated during workflow execution it will check if the recipient is a member of the selected audience.

<Image
  src="/images/concepts/audiences/condition-config.png"
  alt="Audience condition type config in the workflow editor"
  width={854}
  height={572}
  className="rounded-md border border-gray-200"
/>

## Populating an audience

> Before populating your audience ensure that your segment’s user data has been [identified into Knock](/managing-recipients/identifying-recipients) and that you’ve configured and promoted any workflows you want to trigger with the Audience.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before populating your audience ensure that your user data has been [identified in Knock](/managing-recipients/identifying-recipients) and that you’ve configured and promoted any workflows you want to trigger with the Audience.
```

---
title: Audiences
description: Learn how to use Audiences to power your lifecycle marketing use cases.
tags: []
section: Concepts
---

An Audience is a user segment that you can notify. You can bring audiences into Knock programmatically with our API or a supported reverse-ETL source.

Once you start creating audiences in Knock, you can use them to:

- trigger workflows for lifecycle messaging (such as new user signups) and transactional messaging (such as payment method updates)

> - orchestrate branch and conditional logic within your workflows (e.g. if a user is in a `paid users` audience, opt them out of the workflow)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- orchestrate branch and conditional logic within your workflows using audience membership (e.g. if a user is in a `paid users` audience, opt them out of the workflow)
```

> ## Environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Using audiences across environments
```
Maybe something like this? Not sure I love my suggestion

> Audiences exist across environments but have per-environment user lists. When you create an audience, its key instantly exists across all environments. Any users added to an audience are scoped to a specific environment. Audiences do not follow Knock version control and do not need to be committed or promoted to environments.

Reviewer 3: We may want to call out audience management per environment - this is a detail that I think is important and this detail feels buried in this section.

![Audience selector in the workflow editor](/images/concepts/audiences/workflow-editor-audience-selector.png)

## Creating an audience

> Navigate to the “Audiences” section on the Knock dashboard’s sidebar, then click “Create Audience” in the top right corner. Once created, an audience is immediately available for use in every environment.

Reviewer 2: I believe this page should be bolded as outlined here: https://www.notion.so/knockapp/Knock-docs-style-guide-9fd5eaf44be54994ad8741d1c86f20f1?pvs=4#d11b106f70014ce5a212b11a64b0a60a

## Tenants

When adding users to an audience you can optionally include a tenant id to power per-user, per-tenant workflows. A user can exist in an audience with multiple distinct tenants.

![An audience member with multiple distinct tenant ids](/images/concepts/audiences/audience-member-with-multiple-tenant-ids.png)

## Triggering workflows

Workflows can be configured to trigger for every new member added to an audience.

> Create or open the workflow you’d like to trigger for your audience, then open the step editor. Click on the “Trigger” step, then click “Edit trigger type” in the top right corner. Click “Audience“ and then select the audience you’d like this workflow to trigger from.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Create or open the workflow you’d like to trigger for your audience, then open the workflow editor. Click on the “Trigger” step, then click “Edit trigger type” in the top right corner. Click “Audience“ and then select the audience you’d like this workflow to trigger from.
```

![Audience trigger type config in the workflow editor](/images/concepts/audiences/audience-trigger-type-config.png)

Commit your workflow to development, and when you’re ready promote it to production. At this point, every time a user is added to the selected audience a workflow will be triggered with that user as a recipient. The workflow will run in the environment where the user was added to the audience. In other words, if you use a production API key to add users to the audience, the workflow will trigger in your production environment.

> When a workflow triggers from an audience entry event, the tenant id provided for the member will be passed along to the workflow trigger. If no tenant id is provided in the API request, the workflow will trigger with no tenant data. If the same user is added with multiple distinct tenants, the workflow will trigger each time by default. To configure this behavior use [trigger frequency](/send-notifications/triggering-workflows#controlling-workflow-trigger-frequency) controls.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a workflow triggers from an audience entry event, the tenant id provided for the member will be passed along to the workflow trigger. If no tenant id is provided in the API request, the workflow will run with no tenant data. If the same user is added with multiple distinct tenants, the workflow will trigger each time by default. To configure this behavior use [trigger frequency](/send-notifications/triggering-workflows#controlling-workflow-trigger-frequency) controls.
```

## Audience conditions

> Audience membership can be checked in [branch](designing-workflows/branch-function#adding-conditions-to-branches) and [step conditions](https://docs.knock.app/designing-workflows/step-conditions). Create a condition, then select “Audience membership” as the type. When the condition is evaluated during workflow execution it will check if the recipient is a member of the selected audience.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Audience membership can be checked in [branch](designing-workflows/branch-function#adding-conditions-to-branches) and [step conditions](/designing-workflows/step-conditions). Create a condition, then select “Audience membership” as the type. When the condition is evaluated during workflow execution it will check if the recipient is a member of the selected audience.
```
removing absolute url

![Audience selector in the workflow editor](/images/concepts/audiences/workflow-editor-audience-selector.png)

## Using audiences with workflows

### Triggering workflows

Workflows can be configured to trigger for every new member added to an audience.

Create or open the workflow you’d like to trigger for your audience, then open the workflow editor. Click on the “Trigger” step, then click “Edit trigger type” in the top right corner. Click “Audience“ and then select the audience you’d like this workflow to trigger from.

![Audience trigger type config in the workflow editor](/images/concepts/audiences/audience-trigger-type-config.png)

Commit your workflow to development, and when you’re ready promote it to production. At this point, every time a user is added to the selected audience a workflow will be triggered with that user as a recipient. The workflow will run in the environment where the user was added to the audience. In other words, if you use a production API key to add users to the audience, the workflow will trigger in your production environment.

> When a workflow triggers from an audience entry event, the tenant id provided for the member will be passed along to the workflow trigger. If no tenant id is provided in the API request, the workflow will run with no tenant data. If the same user is added with multiple distinct tenants, the workflow will trigger each time by default. To configure this behavior use [trigger frequency](/send-notifications/triggering-workflows#controlling-workflow-trigger-frequency) controls.

Author: I did a quick search and see a lot of cases of `ID` so I'll pivot to that

### Audience conditions

Audience membership can be checked in [branch](designing-workflows/branch-function#adding-conditions-to-branches) and [step conditions](/designing-workflows/step-conditions). Create a condition, then select “Audience membership” as the type. When the condition is evaluated during workflow execution it will check if the recipient is a member of the selected audience.

![Audience condition type config in the workflow editor](/images/concepts/audiences/condition-config.png)

Tenancy is taken into account when checking audience membership. For a recipient to be considered a member of an audience during workflow execution, the tenant id provided with the trigger data must match the user’s audience membership record. If no tenant id was provided with the trigger, the user must have been added to the audience with no tenant id.

## Populating an audience

> Before populating your audience ensure that your segment’s user data has been [synchronized into Knock](/managing-recipients/identifying-recipients) and that you’ve configured and promoted any workflows you want to trigger with the Audience.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Before populating your audience ensure that your segment’s user data has been [identified into Knock](/managing-recipients/identifying-recipients) and that you’ve configured and promoted any workflows you want to trigger with the Audience.
```
Preference to use identified to map to language we use in that part of docs

Reviewer 4: Also does this mean that I have to identify all members of my audience with Knock separately via identify endpoint *before* I sync them in via rETL?

Author: Yep, we decided not to implement any sort of inline identification for phase 1. We've gotten feedback from @maybecolin that some form of inline identification may be useful, but what'd be even more useful is being able to supply additional metadata with the "add audience member" request. That metadata could then be accessed from a workflow. An example might be "num_items_in_cart" for an audience of people who never finished checkout.

Inline identification and audience member metadata would both add scope to this project. So far we've felt like they're not blockers for a customer beta and we need to get some more feedback

Reviewer 4: Got it. Let's chat on priority for those two items outside of this PR. To me inline identification feels more important since otherwise you have to identify all users into Knock separately, which most marketers won't be in a position to do. 

Member metadata is powerful but if you can't bring the users into Knock in the first place I'm not sure where that leaves you.

### Tenants

> When adding users to an audience you can optionally include a tenant id to power per-user, per-tenant workflows. A user can exist in an audience with multiple distinct tenants.

Reviewer 4: This feels like it should be the start of the dedicated tenants section I mentioned above

> ![An audience member with multiple distinct tenant ids](/images/concepts/audiences/audience-member-with-multiple-tenant-ids.png)

Reviewer 4: Need formatting on this image, see comment above
